- [Instructor] Quite often when your services
are deployed in the communities cluster,
you need some visibility into them.
There are plenty of tools available,
such as Prometheus, Grafana, and many others
that provide you visibility into how your micro services
are running, how are they connected.
Kiali is a new tool that has been introduced recently
as part of Istio.
Well, first of all, going with our sailing team
around Kubernetes, Kiali is yet another Greek word
meaning monocular or spyglass.
Kiali project provides answers for the questions,
what microservices are part of my Istio service mesh
and how are they connected?
You can get answers such as,
gain insight into how your mesh is functioning,
have a checkup with your mesh's health.
You can choose what kind of craft to display.
You can zoom in to see
what is happening with a single component,
you can visualize your traffic flow,
browse your service mesh by applications,
workloads and services and much more.
Now by default Kiali is disabled when Istio 1.0.5
is installed and so it needs to be enabled.
So let's get started with that.
We are in the Istio directory, this is how we install Istio.
So let's go ahead and enable Kiali for us.
So I will say helm template
and I'm going to set the value of kiali.enable to true.
And where am I setting this value?
I am setting this value in install kubernetes helm istio.
And of course we need to provide the name of the app
which is istio in our case and the namespace
which is istio-system.
And then we're going to get the new template
generated for us in home/istio.yaml.
So this generates a new template for us
with only Kiali being enabled.
And now we can conveniently apply this template.
This will configure our Istio with only Kiali being enabled.
You see a lot of warning messages here,
so don't be confused by them,
those are only warning messages.
Because it's trying to give you a warning
on what kubectl command should be used
by kubectl apply is the right command
that we have done over here.
Now let's look at whether our Kiali pod
has been successfully started.
So we'll say kubectl get pods.
We want to see the pods in the istio-system.
And we only want to see the pods
that have the label app kiali.
And there you go, so our Kiali pod
is now successfully up and running.
So the next thing we need to do
is now open our Kiali dashboard.
So for that we will say kubectl -n istio-system
because that's our namespace.
Then we will do a port forward in this case
and then we do a port forward,
then we need to get our Kiali pod.
So we will say kubectl once again
in the istio-system namespace.
Continue the command and I'm saying get pod.
And I'm saying give me the label kiali.
Continue the command and I'm saying that is my jsonpath
and my jsonpath really looks like give me all the items.
Actually the first one, get the metadata, get the name,
close the json path, close the command
and then close the command once again and here I'm saying,
give me 20001 port on the host
where 20001 is on the container as well.
So let's go ahead and run this here.
So now what we have done is we have done the port forwarding
of the Kiali port here, okay.
Let's open up a browser tab and look at our Kiali dashboard.
And we said it is forwarded on port 20001.
So let's get that.
The default username and password is admin.
So username admin, password admin and login.
And this is your default Kiali dashboard view,
it shows you the application here.
So there's one application, this is the istio-system itself
this is in default namespace.
So let's click on this application here.
You get more details about the application,
well of course we deployed only one application
and that's what it shows here.
So let's click on greeting, it shows it's got two workloads.
Greeting-hello and greeting-howdy and this is my service
it's looking healthy right now.
If you just hover over it and kind of gives you
a basic health metrics based upon Envoy.
I can dig further into it, I can say greeting hello
and then it starts giving me more details
about the particular deployment itself.
And then it shows me the services it is connected to.
I can go to applications here again, get the same view.
I can go to graph here.
Now it's showing me the versioned app.
That means the current version of the app
that is being deployed.
I can change this to workload and now I am seeing
greeting-hello and greeting-howdy.
So those are my two workloads essentially
that are being displayed over here.
So we going to go back to our terminal,
invoke the command to access the application again
and see how this changes.
So let's go ahead and open a new tab of terminal here.
I'll go back to to browser for a second.
We will copy the command to invoke the application again
and because we are on a new terminal,
we need to export the ingress host and port once again.
So let's export them.
So that sets the value for my ingress host and port.
Back in the browser let's say we want to invoke it 10 times,
so copy it and paste it here and let it go.
We get the response back, this is still about 90 10 split.
Now if I go back to my browser, look at the Kiali console,
I can change this to every five seconds
and say refresh it now.
And right away you see that istio-ingress
is now invoking greeting-hello and greeting-howdy.
And greeting-hello particularly is all green
because that's the service it invoked.
And here you can see the HTTP traffic chart as well.
Now I can go back here, invoke the service
and this time let's say we want to invoke it 50 times.
So that at least sometimes howdy is invoked as well.
Okay we saw howdy invoked a few times.
And you can see automatically the graph refreshed.
So you can get a good feeling of, you know,
how your overall service is looking,
how healthy it is and what values does it carry.
Now there are a lot more things here that you can explore.
So if you have multiple applications deployed,
they will of course be displayed over here.
You can filter them by namespace,
you can get all kind of graphs here as we saw.
So, by app, by service, by versioned app.
You can of course get more details about the service itself,
say if I click on say greeting service here,
it gives me more details about the service.
It shows me the associated Istio resources
that were created.
So what are my source workloads?
Well it's ingress gateway and then what is
my associated virtual service or my destination rules?
So I can start getting a lot more details
from the Kiali console itself.
So I would recommend give it a shot,
now this a new release, this is the first time
it has been integrated into Istio 1.0.5.
The way the integration may look like
in Istio 1.1 may be different but definitely
worth keeping an eye on.
Now let's make sure we also clean our port forwarding.
So we're going to hit ctrl + z here and that way,
the port is not occupied and our connection is clean.
To do a final cleanup of Istio,
let's remove the Istio greeting resources.
That can be done by kubectl delete -f
and we need to go into our workspace directory.
Manifests, standalone, greeting, istio.yaml.
This is going to delete our gateway,
destination rule and virtual service.
And finally we can also delete Istio altogether
from the cluster itself.
Helm delete istio and purge.
It says release istio is deleted.
Oftentimes we have seen certain CRDs
that are created by Istio are leftover.
And so we may have to delete them explicitly.
So in which case you go cubectl delete
- f install kubernetes
helm istio templates crds
and they are in the istio-system namespace.
And that leads to a clean deletion of istio
from your EKS cluster.
Of course we can delete our app as well.
So if we look at helm ls, our app exists.
Okay, so let's go ahead helm delete myapp and purge.
That deletes our app as well.